This tutorial will show you how to get started with Trillian, build a
quick working demo, and then transform that into a verifiable,
reliable service.

Step 1
------

We need a source of data that we are going to log. This could be
anything, but for this tutorial, I've chosen the [GDS Registers
project](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/registers/registers).

In this step, we start with a simple program that reads a register and
dumps its contents to stdout.

You can run it with

```go run dump/main.go```

By default it uses the ["register" register (a list of all
registers)](https://register.register.gov.uk/) but you can point it at
others with the `--register` flag.

Step 2
------

Next, we are going to put the data into a Trillian log. The first step
is run the log server and create a log.

Build Trillian:

```make trillian```

(Note that if you have already have Trillian source, this will update
it, but the update does not always seem to be reliable, see the
[Trillian README](https://github.com/google/trillian#using-the-code))

Run the log server (this will tie up a terminal window):

```make tlserver```

And create a log (if you need to redo this, you can run `make
deletelog` first):

```make createlog```

So now we have a log ready for entries from the register. To fill that
log, the application connects to the log using `grpc.Dial()`, then
creates a new log client with `trillian.NewTrillianLogClient`.

It then feeds each entry as we get it to the log, using
`QueueLeaf()` on the log client. The rest is just housekeeping.

I chose to use JSON to encode the leaves because the registers
themselves use JSON. JSON is not actually a very good encoding format,
it is too limited, so I would normally advise something else, such as
protobufs.

You can run the logger with:

```
go run dump/main.go -log_id=`cat logid`
```

Note that if you run it a second time, it will not usually add any new
entries, though this is not guaranteed by Trillian, depending on
exactly how it is configured. That is, it is possible to get duplicate
log entries under some circumstances.
